
Chapter 1 : ONE. I ACCIDENTALLY VAPORIZE MY PRE-ALGEBRA TEACHER. 
 Paragraph 1 : Look, I didn’t want to be a half-blood. 
 Paragraph 2 : If you’re reading this because you think you might be one, my advice is: close this book right now. Believe whatever lie your mom or dad told you about your birth, and try to lead a normal life. 
 Paragraph 3 : Being a half-blood is dangerous. It’s scary. Most of the time, it gets you killed in painful, nasty ways. 
 Paragraph 4 : If you’re a normal kid, reading this because you think it’s fiction, great. Read on. I envy you for being able to believe that none of this ever happened. 
 Paragraph 5 : But if you recognize yourself in these pages—if you feel something stirring inside—stop reading immediately. You might be one of us. And once you know that, it’s only a matter of time before they sense it too, and they’ll come for you. 
 Paragraph 6 : Don’t say I didn’t warn you. 
 Paragraph 7 : My name is Percy Jackson. 
 Paragraph 8 : I’m twelve years old. Until a few months ago, I was a boarding student at Yancy Academy, a private school for troubled kids in upstate New York. 
 Paragraph 9 : Am I a troubled kid? 
 Paragraph 10 : Yeah. You could say that. 
 Paragraph 11 : I could start at any point in my short miserable life to prove it, but things really started going bad last May, when our sixth-grade class took a field trip to Manhattan— twenty-eight mental-case kids and two teachers on a yellow school bus, heading to the Metropolitan Museum of Art to look at ancient Greek and Roman stuff. 
 Paragraph 12 : I know—it sounds like torture. Most Yancy field trips were. 
 Paragraph 13 : But Mr. Brunner, our Latin teacher, was leading this trip, so I had hopes. 
 Paragraph 14 : Mr. Brunner was this middle-aged guy in a motorized wheelchair. He had thinning hair and a scruffy beard and a frayed tweed jacket, which always smelled like coffee. You wouldn’t think he’d be cool, but he told stories and jokes and let us play games in class. He also had this awesome collection of Roman armor and weapons, so he was the only teacher whose class didn’t put me to sleep. 
 Paragraph 15 : I hoped the trip would be okay. At least, I hoped that for once I wouldn’t get in trouble. 
 Paragraph 16 : Boy, was I wrong. 
 Paragraph 17 : See, bad things happen to me on field trips. Like at my fifth-grade school, when we went to the Saratoga battlefield, I had this accident with a Revolutionary War cannon. I wasn’t aiming for the school bus, but of course I got expelled anyway. And before that, at my fourth-grade school, when we took a behind-the-scenes tour of the Marine World shark pool, I sort of hit the wrong lever on the catwalk and our class took an unplanned swim. And the time before that . . . Well, you get the idea. 
 Paragraph 18 : This trip, I was determined to be good. 
 Paragraph 19 : All the way into the city, I put up with Nancy Bobofit, the freckly, redheaded kleptomaniac girl, hitting my best friend Grover in the back of the head with chunks of peanut butter-and-ketchup sandwich. 
 Paragraph 20 : Grover was an easy target. He was scrawny. He cried when he got frustrated. He must’ve been held back several grades, because he was the only sixth grader with acne and the start of a wispy beard on his chin. On top of all that, he was crippled. He had a note excusing him from PE for the rest of his life because he had some kind of muscular disease in his legs. He walked funny, like every step hurt him, but don’t let that fool you. You should’ve seen him run when it was enchilada day in the cafeteria. 
 Paragraph 21 : Anyway, Nancy Bobofit was throwing wads of sandwich that stuck in his curly brown hair, and she knew I couldn’t do anything back to her because I was already on probation. The headmaster had threatened me with death by in-school suspension if anything bad, embarrassing, or even mildly entertaining happened on this trip. 
 Paragraph 22 : “I’m going to kill her,” I mumbled. 
 Paragraph 23 : Grover tried to calm me down. “It’s okay. I like peanut butter.” 
 Paragraph 24 : He dodged another piece of Nancy’s lunch. 
 Paragraph 25 : “That’s it.” I started to get up, but Grover pulled me back to my seat. 
 Paragraph 26 : “You’re already on probation,” he reminded me. “You know who’ll get blamed if anything happens.” 
 Paragraph 27 : Looking back on it, I wish I’d decked Nancy Bobofit right then and there. In-school suspension would’ve been nothing compared to the mess I was about to get myself into. 
 Paragraph 28 : Mr. Brunner led the museum tour. 
 Paragraph 29 : He rode up front in his wheelchair, guiding us through the big echoey galleries, past marble statues and glass cases full of really old black-and-orange pottery. 
 Paragraph 30 : It blew my mind that this stuff had survived for two thousand, three thousand years. 
 Paragraph 31 : He gathered us around a thirteen-foot-tall stone column with a big sphinx on the top, and started telling us how it was a grave marker, a stele, for a girl about our age. He told us about the carvings on the sides. I was trying to listen to what he had to say, because it was kind of interesting, but everybody around me was talking, and every time I told them to shut up, the other teacher chaperone, Mrs. Dodds, would give me the evil eye. 
 Paragraph 32 : Mrs. Dodds was this little math teacher from Georgia who always wore a black leather jacket, even though she was fifty years old. She looked mean enough to ride a Harley right into your locker. She had come to Yancy halfway through the year, when our last math teacher had a nervous breakdown. 
 Paragraph 33 : From her first day, Mrs. Dodds loved Nancy Bobofit and figured I was devil spawn. She would point her crooked finger at me and say, “Now, honey,” real sweet, and I knew I was going to get after-school detention for a month. 
 Paragraph 34 : One time, after she’d made me erase answers out of old math workbooks until midnight, I told Grover I didn’t think Mrs. Dodds was human. He looked at me, real serious, and said, “You’re absolutely right.” 
 Paragraph 35 : Mr. Brunner kept talking about Greek funeral art. 
 Paragraph 36 : Finally, Nancy Bobofit snickered something about the naked guy on the stele, and I turned around and said, “Will you shut up?” 
 Paragraph 37 : It came out louder than I meant it to. 
 Paragraph 38 : The whole group laughed. Mr. Brunner stopped his story. 
 Paragraph 39 : “Mr. Jackson,” he said, “did you have a comment?” 
 Paragraph 40 : My face was totally red. I said, “No, sir.” 
 Paragraph 41 : Mr. Brunner pointed to one of the pictures on the stele. “Perhaps you’ll tell us what this picture represents?” 
 Paragraph 42 : I looked at the carving, and felt a flush of relief, because I actually recognized it. “That’s Kronos eating his kids, right?” 
 Paragraph 43 : “Yes,” Mr. Brunner said, obviously not satisfied. “And he did this because . . .”

“Well . . .” I racked my brain to remember. “Kronos was the king god, and—”

“God?” Mr. Brunner asked. 
 Paragraph 44 : “Titan,” I corrected myself. “And . . . he didn’t trust his kids, who were the gods. So, um, Kronos ate them, right? But his wife hid baby Zeus, and gave Kronos a rock to eat instead. And later, when Zeus grew up, he tricked his dad, Kronos, into barfing up his brothers and sisters—”

“Eeew!” said one of the girls behind me. 
 Paragraph 45 : “—and so there was this big fight between the gods and the Titans,” I continued, “and the gods won.” 
 Paragraph 46 : Some snickers from the group. 
 Paragraph 47 : Behind me, Nancy Bobofit mumbled to a friend, “Like we’re going to use this in real life. Like it’s going to say on our job applications, ‘Please explain why Kronos ate his kids. ’”

“And why, Mr. Jackson,” Brunner said, “to paraphrase Miss Bobofit’s excellent question, does this matter in real life?” 
 Paragraph 48 : “Busted,” Grover muttered. 
 Paragraph 49 : “Shut up,” Nancy hissed, her face even brighter red than her hair. 
 Paragraph 50 : At least Nancy got packed, too. Mr. Brunner was the only one who ever caught her saying anything wrong. He had radar ears. 
 Paragraph 51 : I thought about his question, and shrugged. “I don’t know, sir.” 
 Paragraph 52 : “I see.” Mr. Brunner looked disappointed. “Well, half credit, Mr. Jackson. Zeus did indeed feed Kronos a mixture of mustard and wine, which made him disgorge his other five children, who, of course, being immortal gods, had been living and growing up completely undigested in the Titan’s stomach. The gods defeated their father, sliced him to pieces with his own scythe, and scattered his remains in Tartarus, the darkest part of the Underworld. On that happy note, it’s time for lunch. Mrs. Dodds, would you lead us back outside?” 
 Paragraph 53 : The class drifted off, the girls holding their stomachs, the guys pushing each other around and acting like doofuses. 
 Paragraph 54 : Grover and I were about to follow when Mr. Brunner said, “Mr. Jackson.” 
 Paragraph 55 : I knew that was coming. 
 Paragraph 56 : I told Grover to keep going. Then I turned toward Mr. Brunner. “Sir?” 
 Paragraph 57 : Mr. Brunner had this look that wouldn’t let you go— intense brown eyes that could’ve been a thousand years old and had seen everything. 
 Paragraph 58 : “You must learn the answer to my question,” Mr. Brunner told me. 
 Paragraph 59 : “About the Titans?” 
 Paragraph 60 : “About real life. And how your studies apply to it.” 
 Paragraph 61 : “Oh.” 
 Paragraph 62 : “What you learn from me,” he said, “is vitally important. I expect you to treat it as such. I will accept only the best from you, Percy Jackson.” 
 Paragraph 63 : I wanted to get angry, this guy pushed me so hard. 
 Paragraph 64 : I mean, sure, it was kind of cool on tournament days, when he dressed up in a suit of Roman armor and shouted: “What ho!” and challenged us, sword-point against chalk, to run to the board and name every Greek and Roman person who had ever lived, and their mother, and what god they worshipped. But Mr. Brunner expected me to be as good as everybody else, despite the fact that I have dyslexia and attention deficit disorder and I had never made above a C– in my life. No—he didn’t expect me to be as good; he expected me to be better. And I just couldn’t learn all those names and facts, much less spell them correctly. 
 Paragraph 65 : I mumbled something about trying harder, while Mr. Brunner took one long sad look at the stele, like he’d been at this girl’s funeral. 
 Paragraph 66 : He told me to go outside and eat my lunch. 
 Paragraph 67 : The class gathered on the front steps of the museum, where we could watch the foot traffic along Fifth Avenue. 
 Paragraph 68 : Overhead, a huge storm was brewing, with clouds blacker than I’d ever seen over the city. I figured maybe it was global warming or something, because the weather all across New York state had been weird since Christmas. We’d had massive snow storms, flooding, wildfires from lightning strikes. I wouldn’t have been surprised if this was a hurricane blowing in. 
 Paragraph 69 : Nobody else seemed to notice. Some of the guys were pelting pigeons with Lunchables crackers. Nancy Bobofit was trying to pickpocket something from a lady’s purse, and, of course, Mrs. Dodds wasn’t seeing a thing. 
 Paragraph 70 : Grover and I sat on the edge of the fountain, away from the others. We thought that maybe if we did that, everybody wouldn’t know we were from that school—the school for loser freaks who couldn’t make it elsewhere. 
 Paragraph 71 : “Detention?” Grover asked. 
 Paragraph 72 : “Nah,” I said. “Not from Brunner. I just wish he’d lay off me sometimes. I mean—I’m not a genius.” 
 Paragraph 73 : Grover didn’t say anything for a while. Then, when I thought he was going to give me some deep philosophical comment to make me feel better, he said, “Can I have your apple?” 
 Paragraph 74 : I didn’t have much of an appetite, so I let him take it. 
 Paragraph 75 : I watched the stream of cabs going down Fifth Avenue, and thought about my mom’s apartment, only a little ways uptown from where we sat. I hadn’t seen her since Christmas. I wanted so bad to jump in a taxi and head home. She’d hug me and be glad to see me, but she’d be disappointed, too. She’d send me right back to Yancy, remind me that I had to try harder, even if this was my sixth school in six years and I was probably going to be kicked out again. I wouldn’t be able to stand that sad look she’d give me. 
 Paragraph 76 : Mr. Brunner parked his wheelchair at the base of the handicapped ramp. He ate celery while he read a paperback novel. A red umbrella stuck up from the back of his chair, making it look like a motorized café table. 
 Paragraph 77 : I was about to unwrap my sandwich when Nancy Bobofit appeared in front of me with her ugly friends—I guess she’d gotten tired of stealing from the tourists—and dumped her half-eaten lunch in Grover’s lap. 
 Paragraph 78 : “Oops.” She grinned at me with her crooked teeth. Her freckles were orange, as if somebody had spray-painted her face with liquid Cheetos. 
 Paragraph 79 : I tried to stay cool. The school counselor had told me a million times, “Count to ten, get control of your temper.” But I was so mad my mind went blank. A wave roared in my ears. 
 Paragraph 80 : I don’t remember touching her, but the next thing I knew, Nancy was sitting on her butt in the fountain, screaming, “Percy pushed me!” 
 Paragraph 81 : Mrs. Dodds materialized next to us. 
 Paragraph 82 : Some of the kids were whispering: “Did you see—”

“—the water—”

“—like it grabbed her—”

I didn’t know what they were talking about. All I knew was that I was in trouble again. 
 Paragraph 83 : As soon as Mrs. Dodds was sure poor little Nancy was okay, promising to get her a new shirt at the museum gift shop, etc., etc., Mrs. Dodds turned on me. There was a triumphant fire in her eyes, as if I’d done something she’d been waiting for all semester. “Now, honey—”

“I know,” I grumbled. “A month erasing workbooks.” 
 Paragraph 84 : That wasn’t the right thing to say. 
 Paragraph 85 : “Come with me,” Mrs. Dodds said. 
 Paragraph 86 : “Wait!” Grover yelped. “It was me. I pushed her.” 
 Paragraph 87 : I stared at him, stunned. I couldn’t believe he was trying to cover for me. Mrs. Dodds scared Grover to death. 
 Paragraph 88 : She glared at him so hard his whiskery chin trembled. 
 Paragraph 89 : “I don’t think so, Mr. Underwood,” she said. 
 Paragraph 90 : “But—”

“You—will—stay—here.” 
 Paragraph 91 : Grover looked at me desperately. 
 Paragraph 92 : “It’s okay, man,” I told him. “Thanks for trying.” 
 Paragraph 93 : “Honey,” Mrs. Dodds barked at me. “Now.” 
 Paragraph 94 : Nancy Bobofit smirked. I gave her my deluxe I’ll-kill-you-later stare. Then I turned to face Mrs. Dodds, but she wasn’t there. She was standing at the museum entrance, way at the top of the steps, gesturing impatiently at me to come on. 
 Paragraph 95 : How’d she get there so fast? 
 Paragraph 96 : I have moments like that a lot, when my brain falls asleep or something, and the next thing I know I’ve missed something, as if a puzzle piece fell out of the universe and left me staring at the blank place behind it. The school counselor told me this was part of the ADHD, my brain misinterpreting things. 
 Paragraph 97 : I wasn’t so sure. 
 Paragraph 98 : I went after Mrs. Dodds. 
 Paragraph 99 : Halfway up the steps, I glanced back at Grover. He was looking pale, cutting his eyes between me and Mr. Brunner, like he wanted Mr. Brunner to notice what was going on, but Mr. Brunner was absorbed in his novel. 
 Paragraph 100 : I looked back up. Mrs. Dodds had disappeared again. She was now inside the building, at the end of the entrance hall. 
 Paragraph 101 : Okay, I thought. She’s going to make me buy a new shirt for Nancy at the gift shop. 
 Paragraph 102 : But apparently that wasn’t the plan. 
 Paragraph 103 : I followed her deeper into the museum. When I finally caught up to her, we were back in the Greek and Roman section. 
 Paragraph 104 : Except for us, the gallery was empty. 
 Paragraph 105 : Mrs. Dodds stood with her arms crossed in front of a big marble frieze of the Greek gods. She was making this weird noise in her throat, like growling. 
 Paragraph 106 : Even without the noise, I would’ve been nervous. It’s weird being alone with a teacher, especially Mrs. Dodds. Something about the way she looked at the frieze, as if she wanted to pulverize it . . .

“You’ve been giving us problems, honey,” she said. 
 Paragraph 107 : I did the safe thing. I said, “Yes, ma’am.” 
 Paragraph 108 : She tugged on the cuffs of her leather jacket. “Did you really think you would get away with it?” 
 Paragraph 109 : The look in her eyes was beyond mad. It was evil. 
 Paragraph 110 : She’s a teacher, I thought nervously. It’s not like she’s going to hurt me. 
 Paragraph 111 : I said, “I’ll—I’ll try harder, ma’am.” 
 Paragraph 112 : Thunder shook the building. 
 Paragraph 113 : “We are not fools, Percy Jackson,” Mrs. Dodds said. “It was only a matter of time before we found you out. Confess, and you will suffer less pain.” 
 Paragraph 114 : I didn’t know what she was talking about. 
 Paragraph 115 : All I could think of was that the teachers must’ve found the illegal stash of candy I’d been selling out of my dorm room. Or maybe they’d realized I got my essay on Tom Sawyer from the Internet without ever reading the book and now they were going to take away my grade. Or worse, they were going to make me read the book. 
 Paragraph 116 : “Well?” she demanded. 
 Paragraph 117 : “Ma’am, I don’t . . .”

“Your time is up,” she hissed. 
 Paragraph 118 : Then the weirdest thing happened. Her eyes began to glow like barbecue coals. Her fingers stretched, turning into talons. Her jacket melted into large, leathery wings. She wasn’t human. She was a shriveled hag with bat wings and claws and a mouth full of yellow fangs, and she was about to slice me to ribbons. 
 Paragraph 119 : Then things got even stranger. 
 Paragraph 120 : Mr. Brunner, who’d been out in front of the museum a minute before, wheeled his chair into the doorway of the gallery, holding a pen in his hand. 
 Paragraph 121 : “What ho, Percy!” he shouted, and tossed the pen through the air. 
 Paragraph 122 : Mrs. Dodds lunged at me. 
 Paragraph 123 : With a yelp, I dodged and felt talons slash the air next to my ear. I snatched the ballpoint pen out of the air, but when it hit my hand, it wasn’t a pen anymore. It was a sword—Mr. Brunner’s bronze sword, which he always used on tournament day. 
 Paragraph 124 : Mrs. Dodds spun toward me with a murderous look in her eyes. 
 Paragraph 125 : My knees were jelly. My hands were shaking so bad I almost dropped the sword. 
 Paragraph 126 : She snarled, “Die, honey!” 
 Paragraph 127 : And she flew straight at me. 
 Paragraph 128 : Absolute terror ran through my body. I did the only thing that came naturally: I swung the sword. 
 Paragraph 129 : The metal blade hit her shoulder and passed clean through her body as if she were made of water. Hisss! 
 Paragraph 130 : Mrs. Dodds was a sand castle in a power fan. She exploded into yellow powder, vaporized on the spot, leaving nothing but the smell of sulfur and a dying screech and a chill of evil in the air, as if those two glowing red eyes were still watching me. 
 Paragraph 131 : I was alone. 
 Paragraph 132 : There was a ballpoint pen in my hand. 
 Paragraph 133 : Mr. Brunner wasn’t there. Nobody was there but me. 
 Paragraph 134 : My hands were still trembling. My lunch must’ve been contaminated with magic mushrooms or something. 
 Paragraph 135 : Had I imagined the whole thing? 
 Paragraph 136 : I went back outside. 
 Paragraph 137 : It had started to rain. 
 Paragraph 138 : Grover was sitting by the fountain, a museum map tented over his head. Nancy Bobofit was still standing there, soaked from her swim in the fountain, grumbling to her ugly friends. When she saw me, she said, “I hope Mrs. Kerr whipped your butt.” 
 Paragraph 139 : I said, “Who?” 
 Paragraph 140 : “Our teacher. Duh!” 
 Paragraph 141 : I blinked. We had no teacher named Mrs. Kerr. I asked Nancy what she was talking about. 
 Paragraph 142 : She just rolled her eyes and turned away. 
 Paragraph 143 : I asked Grover where Mrs. Dodds was. 
 Paragraph 144 : He said, “Who?” 
 Paragraph 145 : But he paused first, and he wouldn’t look at me, so I thought he was messing with me. 
 Paragraph 146 : “Not funny, man,” I told him. “This is serious.” 
 Paragraph 147 : Thunder boomed overhead. 
 Paragraph 148 : I saw Mr. Brunner sitting under his red umbrella, reading his book, as if he’d never moved. 
 Paragraph 149 : I went over to him. 
 Paragraph 150 : He looked up, a little distracted. “Ah, that would be my pen. Please bring your own writing utensil in the future, Mr. Jackson.” 
 Paragraph 151 : I handed Mr. Brunner his pen. I hadn’t even realized I was still holding it. 
 Paragraph 152 : “Sir,” I said, “where’s Mrs. Dodds?” 
 Paragraph 153 : He stared at me blankly. “Who?” 
 Paragraph 154 : “The other chaperone. Mrs. Dodds. The pre-algebra teacher.” 
 Paragraph 155 : He frowned and sat forward, looking mildly concerned. “Percy, there is no Mrs. Dodds on this trip. As far as I know, there has never been a Mrs. Dodds at Yancy Academy. Are you feeling all right?” 
Chapter 2 : TWO. THREE OLD LADIES KNIT THE SOCKS OF DEATH. 
 Paragraph 1 : “This is not happening,” Grover mumbled. He started chewing at his thumb. “I don’t want this to be like the last time.” 
 Paragraph 2 : “What last time?” 
 Paragraph 3 : “Always sixth grade. They never get past sixth.” 
 Paragraph 4 : “Grover,” I said, because he was really starting to scare me. “What are you talking about?” 
 Paragraph 5 : “Let me walk you home from the bus station. Promise me.” 
 Paragraph 6 : This seemed like a strange request to me, but I promised he could. 
 Paragraph 7 : “Is this like a superstition or something?” I asked. 
 Paragraph 8 : No answer. 
 Paragraph 9 : “Grover—that snipping of the yarn. Does that mean somebody is going to die?” He looked at me mournfully, like he was already picking the kind of flowers I’d like best on my coffin. 