Amy was up, and she'd slept fine. She stuck her foot over James' face to wake him up.

"Shower day, Ross," Amy said.

James burst into life.

"Get that stink off my face," James said, pushing Amy's foot away. "Who's Ross?"

"You are, stupid," Amy whispered.

"Sorry," James gasped, realising where he was. "I must remember that."

"There's a rota for hot water," Amy said. "You get one shower a week. Friday is boys."

"One shower a week?" James said. "With all this mud."

"How do you think I feel? I've got to wait four days and I don't exactly smell great now."

Cathy showed him where the wash hut was. It was narrow, with a reservoir of rainwater on the roof. Every morning a gas boiler heated enough water to run the showers for ten minutes. If you missed out, you stank for another week. James dashed to the shower hut and stripped. There were eight boys under the water, sharing bars of soggy white soap and messing about. Mums stood outside, telling the little ones to get a move on. The water was barely warm. James rubbed soap in his hair as the hot ran out. The others knew better and scrambled off. James had to rinse with a bucket of freezing rainwater. He sprinted back to Cathy's hut wearing wellies and a big towel.

Cathy was cooking bacon and eggs on a portable gas stove. It smelled good and there was plenty of it.

"Do you kids drink coffee?" Cathy asked. "It's all I've got."

James didn't care what it was as long as it was warm. He drank two cups and stuffed down four rashers of bacon and two runny fried eggs, mopping the yolk off his plate with white bread.

"I've got to go enrol Ross in school," Cathy said. "Then I'll go to Tesco. Anything you two want?"

"Mars bars," James said. "What about enrolling Courtney?"

"After you went to bed I met this guy Scargill," Amy said. "He said he'd try and fix me a job at Green Brooke."

James was impressed Amy had made such a fast attachment to Scargill. He was also miffed that she'd got out of school.

"I guess you'll start school on Monday, Ross," Cathy said. "Friday night here is usually a laugh. Everyone turns up after dark. We build a bonfire and play music and stuff."